[First Project_Frogger.zip](https://github.com/SoveliaW/Frogger_GameDesign/files/6098455/First.Project_Frogger.zip)

This program was made with the GameMaker Studio engine. It was an assignment for a class I took, which wanted me to recreate an old classic, like Frogger.By this point in the class, we have only learned the basic features of GameMaer Studios 2. Frogger is an older game that was released in 1981. Because of its age, it had simpler controls and coding than today’s games do. This made it a great game for first time game studio coders. 

The programming language is called game maker language, but it is very similar to python. This made it very easy to read the code. When I first open the project to start, you have an empty room that I resized to more compliment the game. After this, I make objects that represent the player (the frog), four different types of cars, tree logs of different sizes, and turtles. I also have other objects that are the sidewalks and border of the room. They were each assigned a sprite, or the image. Without a sprite, the objects can’t be seen.

Now that everything is given a name and a sprite, it was time to place the objects in the room at their beginning spot. From there, I was able to actually begin coding within the object’s ‘Events’. I first had to establish that when the frog connects with any of the vehicles, it loses a life. This was done by setting the amount of lives I wanted in the ‘Create’ event of the frog. In the ‘Step’ event of the same object, I had an if statement that checked how many lives the frog has. This was done in the step event because this event ‘checks’ the room 60 times per second. So it’s always checking to see how many lives the frogs have. When it reaches zero, it shows a message that lets the player know they ran outta lives and the game is over. After the message, the game restarts.

From there I fine tuned things to make the vehicles move at different speeds. However, once the vehicle reached the end of the screen it kept going. To solve this problem, I made a despawned and a spawn bar on either side of the screen. So whenever a vehicle hits the despawn, the number of instances of that vehicle goes down. The respawn is always checking to see if the number of instances goes below a certain point, and when it does, it spawns a new vehicle.
 
This same process is done to the logs and turtles, however the frog did not die whenever it collided with it. Instead, the frog went in the same direction the logs moved in. After all this and testing, I made the goals that the frog needed to reach in order to win the game. Everytime a goal was reached (causing a ‘Collision’ event) the frog respawned back at its original spot and that goal was blocked off. Once all the goals were reached, a message showed that the player won the game and then the game would restart.
 
After all of this, I worked on making the water in the upper half of the game. The problem I ran into with this was that the frog would die whenever it was on top of the water. To fix this, I had the frog checked to see if it would collide with a log or turtle whenever it moved. If it did, then it would not lose a life. After all of this was completed, the game was running and working well. Any changes after that were cosmetics and making the room large to give the player more time to move motta the way of obstacles.
